>> Everyone out there in the live stream, hey, how are you doing?
>> Hi. Great. How are you doing? >> Very good. You ready to do this podcast?
>> Yeah. >> Awesome. Let's kick it off. Those of you
out there in the live stream listening, just drop a comment in the show note, in the live
chat in YouTube. We'll try to make it part of the show. Welcome back to Talk Python to
- It's been some time.
- Feels like a year or so.
I'm not sure exactly how long it's been.
Last time we were on,
we were talking about an entirely different topic.
So you get two bits on the mind map connective
sort of relationship topics here.
We talked about fill and profiling data science.
That was fun.
- Yeah, I sort of have found myself talking
about a bunch of different subjects
and like some people are interested in both,
some people are interested in the other.
And Docker is the other thing I've spent a lot of time
sort of researching and writing about.
- Yeah, I think the data science profiling one
was really interesting because profiling
has all these challenges and much of it is more focused
around profiling running applications
or profiling code that's all in Python.
And so if you need to profile like say Fortran code
or other weird sort of mix and match libraries,
then that was sort of that topic, right?
- Yeah, so for feel as a memory profiler for Python
and the kind of, and specifically for batch processes
like data science, scientific computing.
And so if you're doing scientific computing,
there'll be a bunch of code in Fortran and C++ and Rust.
And so you want to access that memory,
like sort of profile memory
across all the languages you're using.
- Yeah, yeah.
Because if you've got some big glob of C code,
Python thinks it's just a pointer,
a little tiny pointer to some,
but it turns out to be huge.
Guys, if people can check out that episode,
if they're interested and yeah,
just give us an update on what you've been doing since then.
So I've actually been trying to turn Fill into a--
sort of make an alternative version of it
that you can run in production.
Profilers often have performance overhead.
So Fill will take like 40% performance off the top.
Trying to make something that will run with like 1%, 2%
overhead.
So you can run it on production and just always get
reports by your memory usage for any job.
So if it's like six hours in and it crashes,
that crashes or just uses too much memory, go back.
- Oh, that would be fantastic.
- Yeah.
- And we have that for like profiling in terms of performance
on some systems, you can plug them in
and they'll kind of give you real time.
How is my app doing in terms of,
here's where it's spending its time or it got slower.
Maybe it's even just measuring like request response,
but memory profiling's typically been pretty intensive,
so that'd be cool if you could get it down to that level.
- Yeah, and this is a very good,
both Phil and this project are very good pandemic projects.
It's like really, it's quite difficult to do,
but it's something that is sort of
completely under my control.
We'll get to Docker, and Docker is like,
There's this giant ecosystem and they all have differing opinions about how you do things
and everything's so broken around the edges.
Whereas here, it's like I have a box and it's a very complicated box, but it's under my
control and so I can do stuff.
It's kind of relaxing in an environment where the world is not under my control.
Yeah.
It's been a crazy time, hasn't it?
I feel like we're getting used to it.
It's odd, but people just get used to whatever water they swim in eventually, I guess.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, let's talk about Docker a little bit.
So it hasn't been that long since I had-- I also want to shout out quick, episode 274
is when we talked about Philip.
People want to go back and check that out.
I had Peter McKee from Docker over there
to come and talk about sort of what is Docker,
give us an update on Docker, the company,
and sort of set the stage for Python developers, right?
To kind of get going on the dev side
and just start using Docker.
So that was episode 308, and that was fun.
But then recently you gave a talk at PyCon
called "Zero to Production Ready,
"A Best Practices Process for Docker Packaging."
And so I thought that was really interesting
and I wanted to have you on the show
so we could dive into Docker best practices for Python
but also your focus is really on production,
not necessarily development, right?
- Yeah.
- So maybe we start there.
What's Docker look like for software development
as a I just need to make my stuff run
so I can code it and test it out
versus zero downtime Kubernetes
or whatever it is you're trying to do type of thing.
What do those two worlds look like?
And maybe tell folks about when they should care
about what are the advantages or whatever.
- Yeah, so what Docker gives you is a sort of package
that contains all the files you need for the file system,
contains Python, it contains all the system libraries
you need to run your Python extensions.
It contains all your Python dependencies,
contains all your code, and contains a script
to launch your code.
And so as a starting point, this is useful for development
because if you're, say, on macOS or on Windows
and you're deploying to Linux, you
can run something locally that is the same
across different computers.
Even if you are on Linux, like I have one machine that's
Fedora 33, I have another machine that's Ubuntu,
like they're different in a bunch of subtle
and not so subtle ways.
And so by having a Tucker container when I'm developing,
I can have a completely consistent environment
and then know that that environment,
when I then take that code and run in production,
it'll be exactly the same there.
- Right, I had somebody reach out to me a little while ago
and ask something to the effect of,
I've got a bunch of different developers on my team
and I wanna make sure that they all have the same version
of Python and the same packages, right?
And that's a legitimate thing that you might wanna do.
You might wanna make sure that those are exactly the same.
I think maybe in general,
there's probably more of a concern about that
than an actual problem there.
You know, a lot of times,
either these things are gonna basically work
or they're gonna utterly fail.
I think one of the scenarios maybe where it matters more
is data science, where there's slight changes in algorithms,
which might lead to different ways you train the model,
which might lead to different--
those kinds of changes.
But say in web apps or UI apps or something like that,
it's either just going to work or it's
going to completely break.
That said, this situation you're talking
about with Docker for development
kind of solves that, but to a much bigger degree, right?
Because you can specify in this image,
We have exactly this version of Python compiled in this way.
We have these libraries installed with this version.
We have these environment variables set
and this subsystem of Linux installed as well,
but not that other,
like you can completely control it way more than just,
I want the same version of Python, right?
- Yeah, and you can then go further
with something like Docker Compose,
where Compose lets you start up
a little network of containers.
And then it's very easy to say, okay,
I want to spin up Postgres or I want to spin up Redis.
Whereas traditionally this would be a pain in the ass
with Docker and Docker Compose.
You can spin up a little,
all your dependency servers really easily.
So then even if you're not using Docker for your own code,
you can use Docker for the services you depend on.
- Right.
I need Redis running in this way
and then Postgres in that way.
And I just need them all configured and to be able to talk.
So Docker Compose up, right?
something like that.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- Yeah, Docker Compose is a way to sort of run
a little network of services, makes that really easily.
- Yeah, another big advantage before we get off
of the development side of things is onboarding new people
and new hardware, right?
If you've got something really complicated like that,
and you get somebody on the team,
instead of spending a lot of time trying to get
their system put together in the right way,
you just go, install Docker, do this.
- Yep, and yeah, there's open source projects
where like you can set up the development environment
that will also provide a Docker file
to just let you like run some tests easily
just because you're a ongoing,
you're only submitting one patch,
you wanna run some like some tests on it,
you don't want to go the whole thing.
So it's very nice when they provide a way
to run the code in Docker.
- Yeah, absolutely.
That said, I don't generally do my development in Docker,
just have virtual environments and roll with that.
So it's not always required.
A couple of thoughts from folks out in the live stream.
Ken Van Wick, hey, Kim, says, "Docker Compose
is an excellent way to make sure all the developers are using
the same tools and versions, and it's just much easier
to pass around a YAML file."
Yeah, Compose is--
I remember when Compose first came out.
It was called Fig, I think.
And it took Docker from something really neat
to something really useful.
- Yeah, right.
The promise of Docker is that I can have all these different,
if I want to run, like we just described,
I want to run Redis, I want to run maybe a Celery backend,
I want to run Postgres,
and then my dev code is going to run and talk to all that.
Well, keeping those all up to date,
start making sure they all build those files
and they all run, and maybe they run in the right order.
Well, that all of a sudden isn't fun anymore.
But if you can create a compose file and just say,
here's the set of containers that needs to work together,
bring them all up in the right order,
and make sure they're all up to date,
got their recent build and so on,
that's a whole other level of the promise of containers.
Yeah.
And also, I don't know if you know anything about this.
I'll maybe take a wild guess here.
But Daniel Chen out in the live stream
also says, question, in Windows, is
any difference between WSL2 for the Docker back end compared to Hyper-V? Or is Hyper-V
more for backwards compatibility, legacy support?
I in general don't use Windows that much, but basically there's two, like, since you're
running Linux and Windows is not Linux, you need to have some way of running Linux. And
in the past, the way you do that, you would run a virtual machine. That's what it does
as in macOS 2, I believe.
Windows subsystem for Linux is a way
to transparently run Linux applications on Windows.
And Docker supports it these days.
I suspect it would be faster, but that's just a guess.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's my thought as well, that they would
be a little more integrated.
Probably you could more easily do things like mount Windows
file system folders from your Docker container.
maybe you still can't with the others, probably you can, but
- I'd expect to be faster at least, yeah.
- Yeah, it seems like if you want to run on Linux,
you're probably, I think you're probably closer.
It's definitely more lightweight.
The Hyper-V would be running a full on Linux VM
and then hosting Docker in that, I'm pretty sure.
Yeah. - Yeah.
- Cool, all right, well, hopefully our guests is there,
Daniel are helpful for you.
All right, well, let's talk about your talk
that you gave at PyCon.
I mean, giving talks today at conferences,
like we started the show off,
like it's a weird world, right?
I'm giving a talk and both doing a live stream podcast
on a conference tomorrow
at the Manning Developer Productivity Conference.
How can I do that?
We record it, we publish it,
and then we have a live Q&A afterwards.
So the presentation of my recording
will be during the Python Bytes recording tomorrow,
but then the live interactive bit will be actually after.
So yeah, that's the commerce world we live in.
And so PyCon this year was virtual.
You put together a really nice presentation
sort of in this format.
And yeah, like I said, I got a lot out of it
and I liked what you covered there.
- Yeah, and so the starting point is like,
you have a service now you wanna run it in production.
And this is a very dramatic departure
from running things locally, because locally, the thing
you're prioritizing is basically your feedback loop,
like your development feedback loop.
If you're a web developer, you do it
when you save your code, and you reload the page
to have the new stuff running.
Other applications, the feedback loop's a little different.
Like your goal is just as quickly as possible
to interact with your code.
When you're in production, you have
to worry about a whole bunch of other issues
because it's actually you have users
who are going to be interacting with the software
or the data it's emitting will be used in the real world.
It's no longer just something you're working on.
It's a thing that actually has some--
the output actually has some weight, some meaning,
some importance.
And so you have to approach it in a different way.
>> So some of the things that come to mind here
would be downtime.
In a perfect world, zero downtime.
In a reasonable world, a couple of seconds of downtime.
In the world of some bizarre web companies
that I literally cannot understand,
eight hours of downtime.
Because we're deploying the new version of the site,
Sunday, it'll be down.
Like what?
I just literally, I got this a while ago,
a couple of months ago for something I was using.
There's going to be hours of downtime for a site.
That's just, as Explosive said,
do you upgrade to the new version of the site?
That should be a button folks.
That should be not long.
Anyway, one of the things is downtime, right?
You wanna focus on that
and you don't care about that at all with development.
I mean, you want it to be somewhat responsive,
but it doesn't matter if it's down for a moment.
Another one that you made a big deal out of that can matter is security.
You don't want to be in the newspaper or the news website front pages for
leaking the largest data breach ever or something like that, right?
Yeah, that's embarrassing. Yeah, and basically, once you're packaging for production, you're at
the intersection of a whole bunch of processes. This is where it starts getting complicated.
You're coding, and then you have this image, and then you might want to run some tests
with it, maybe integration tests.
You're going to deploy it.
And then when you deploy it, you might be upgrading an existing package, existing server.
It's a server.
It's a batch process.
Things are a little different.
So there's deployment, and then things might go wrong in production, and then you might
have some sort of feedback mechanism, and maybe you're going to try to reproduce the
bug locally.
And so all of these different technological organizational processes have some, interact
in some way with your packaging.
And so it basically makes it a lot more complicated.
And then you add into it all the different technologies that are intersecting in packaging.
And it's just, there's a lot of details to get right.
Yeah.
Another area that you want to get into has to do with making sure that you're running
the latest version, but you're not necessarily
every deployment just grabbing the latest version.
So you need some way to inject stability
and you need some way that that stability
doesn't lock in like computer vulnerabilities
or any of those kinds of issues.
It also allows it to keep growing, right?
- Yeah, and so the, and this is sort of a,
And one of the more significant examples,
but an example of the bigger picture, which
is packaging is a process.
And so it's not just about writing some configuration
files.
It's going to interact with the way you write code.
And it's a thing that's--
parts of it are going to continue over time.
So you're not-- when you're packaging for production,
you're not just writing a few config files
and calling it a day.
You actually need to think about and need
to set up these ongoing processes for things
like security updates and for things like dependency updates.
- Right, it's one thing to get it running on a cluster,
container cluster, it's another to say,
and here's how we're going to keep the software healthy
and running over time, right?
- Yeah, and you need to sort of think through
the implications of what you're doing
and it's not just a one-off thing, it's an ongoing thing.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, let's dive into some of the details.
into some of the details. So it turns out I discovered today as I was pulling up your website
that you've actually written a whole bunch of stuff about production ready docker packaging
and that you're actually working on a handbook. I end up doing this a lot as well. I end up
I'll spend you know a month doing tons of research and examples and thinking about a course and like
oh there's a couple of nice presentations or conference talks I could pull out of here and
Yeah, it's a good way to do it, right?
So you've been thinking a lot about this, not just for this talk, but beyond, right?
Yeah, I've been spending two years on it so far.
Like, I have three different products up there.
I've done training.
There's a lot of articles these days.
Just adds up.
And yeah, I've spent a lot of time looking into this, because it turns out it's--
So I guess I should say, I don't like Docker packaging.
- Okay.
- This isn't a thing I'm doing because like, this is fun.
Like, it's not actually fun.
It's kind of a pain.
It's just, it's very useful
and it's very easy to get it wrong or to miss things.
And so what I've been trying to do is to sit
and say, here's this really useful thing.
Here are the details you need to get right.
And now that I've written it down,
you don't have to waste your time trying to figure this out.
Because much of it is not--
it's really useful, but it's not like--
you don't feel like you're a better person for having
figured this out.
It's just-- it's the getting--
it's an obstacle.
And I'm trying to get people past those obstacles
so they can use this useful technology.
Yeah.
Well, there's a lot of stuff that you
talk about that is not necessarily something that
would be front of mind, like security,
like how to manage the versioning over time and so on.
But I think also it would be quite satisfying to have,
you know, take something that's janky
and maybe it does have that like one hour banner on Sunday,
we're gonna be down from three to four,
creating our site and be able to remove that and say,
no, we just deploy a couple times a week now
and we don't think about it because it's get push prod
and then wait 30 seconds
and then prod is now the new one, right?
- Yeah.
- So I think that's a very good feeling.
- Yeah, and there's a bunch more you need to do that
than what I talk about.
I'm talking about one piece.
There's also the deployment process
and that there's having good observability and logging,
but even just the packaging part of it,
like there's a lot of details to get right
that can make it a lot easier.
- Yeah, so the way you started the presentation,
your first thought for this was that packaging,
this whole Docker as production,
packaging your app in Docker for production
is an iterative process.
- Yep.
- And maybe also layers, right?
Like, so you sit, you don't necessarily start
with the whole, well, we want zero downtime.
You start with, can we make it run in Docker?
- Yeah, and you don't have to do it
as an iterative process.
Like if you can manage to keep all this in your head,
which honestly I can't, there's too many details.
Or if I were to start dockerizing something,
I would probably do a bunch of it in one go
'cause I remember some of it.
But if you're doing this at your job
and you probably are,
like someone's, there's gonna be an emergency
or someone's gonna pull you over
or there's gonna be a bug that you have to fix.
And so you're gonna get pulled away at some point.
And so what you'd like to do is build your packaging
in a way where if you're interrupted, you have to stop,
you have to put it on hold.
you can put it aside and know you're a good stopping point.
And you want to sort of prioritize
the most important ways.
So if you run--
you may just run out of time budget.
Like, you just have limited time.
And you want to do the highest priority things first.
And if you ever have more time--
Well, it sounds like what you're describing
is a little bit of what happened to the software development
side of things when it went from waterfall to agile
or waterfall to something better.
So many projects used to say, well, what we're going to do
is we're going to build it until--
we're gonna work on it for six months
and it's not gonna be actually usable
in any meaningful way until that six month point
and then maybe it drags on and it goes over budget
and gets canceled.
And there's just all sorts of,
you know, you get no user feedback.
There's all these kinds of problems
trying to build software that way.
So it doesn't surprise me
that there would be lots of advantages
to trying to apply that same sort of iterative thinking.
Like let's make sure that each step along the way
we have something that's useful
and more useful than it was before.
- Yep, and it also, even if you know
you have the time budget to do all of it,
having a good understanding of the priorities
means you can focus on the really important things.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Large images are very visible.
Like it's very easy, like you can look at your image
and say, why is this two gigabyte?
Like, this is ridiculous.
And then you can go into this rabbit hole
of like trying to make your image smaller.
And that's a fine thing to do,
But if you deploy an image that's insecure and nice and small,
that's not the best trade-off.
I would venture to say that your organization would not
praise you for your efforts to make it small,
but rather they would be pretty upset about the security
problems, right?
Yeah.
And so security seems like a high priority,
like automation's a high priority.
And the order you might actually do it in
might be slightly different depending on your particular domain you're working on.
- Right. - But...
- It's a bit of a priority stack, right?
Like, what is most important to me or what is most foundational
to this whole packaging and Docker process?
- Yep. - So you actually put up some six points
that you thought were sort of stages in your talk.
Get something working, that's just... Can you use Docker at all?
Obviously, if it doesn't work, it's not going to be useful.
And then number two, even before continuous integration,
security, right?
I can see that people would overlook that,
but that's not trivial, right?
- Yeah, and like security is sort of a never ending thing,
like, 'cause you have to deal with security updates,
but, you know, if you want to,
like, you don't need complete automation
to like spin up a server somewhere and test something.
Like if you're using Heroku,
you can push a Docker image.
- You can manually do a get push.
- Yeah, you can push stuff, and then try it out.
And, but if it's talking to a production database,
and it's not secure, that's the problem.
And packaging is only one small part of security,
and most of it's gonna be application security,
but it still comes into it, and it's still important.
- Right, right, little Bobby Tables is still a problem,
even if it's running in Docker.
- Yes.
- That's right.
Okay, so number two is security
and then number three is continuous integration.
So making sure that like when we check in code
that it's tested in Docker, I'm guessing.
The test to run the system,
something of a Docker compose up type of thing happens
and it's all good.
Then correctness and debug ability.
So correctness is obvious, right?
It needs to work, it needs to have fresh data,
it can't have stale caches and weird things like that.
But debuggability is interesting.
Maybe you wanna focus on that for just a sec?
- Sure, so the idea is that once you have automated builds,
you might start actually running things
in production for real.
Even if not, you're gonna have,
if you're building an image for every pull request,
now you have a bunch of images.
And so someone files a bug,
how do you know what version of your code,
like which Docker image, do they know which Docker image
they were using, what version of the code it matches to?
If something crashes, like are you gonna get actual,
are you gonna get logs that someone can report?
- If you don't go to the effort of exporting the volume
that has where the logs get written,
every new deploy gets a new fresh set of logs.
- Yeah, so yeah, like logging to standard app
or standard error is the other way you deal
of logs in Docker, but you need to like put some minimal thought into like where my log
is going to go.
Yeah.
Another thing that gets really tricky around that kind of stuff I feel has to do with the
fact that there's just so many moving parts a lot of times.
You know, you've got your Celery Docker container, you've got your Redis Docker container, you've
got your Postgres Docker container, you've got your app Docker container.
If you're doing microservices, like who knows how many.
And then all of those things have logs.
Do you use anything, any of the services
that try to bring all those logs into one place?
- I have not a huge amount of experience
on a particular one.
I have, or I've built a system like that,
which these days I wouldn't recommend using,
but it's more for this point.
- Yeah, before the log as a service,
log aggregation as a service was a thing.
- Yeah, and I've seen it.
I've worked on like airline reservation system
that had one of these, and this was a like eye opener
for me being able to see logs going between five services
in like multiple different protocols.
So you could make debugging vastly simpler.
- Yeah.
- So you really like anything that lets you trace
across services with a tracing ID will make your,
once you have more than one service,
it'll make your life much easier.
However, my recommendation is avoid microservices
unless your company has 500 people.
- Yeah. - Something like that.
- Yeah, it's an amazing architectural design pattern
when there needs to be autonomy
for different parts of the application.
Like this team works on the front end little bits here.
This team works on the user authentication
and identity part APIs.
But looking at the most recent PSF JetBrains survey,
that is not the number of employees,
number of people on a team type of description
for most Python developers.
It's like a handful of folks.
- Yeah, and if you look at--
- All working on a lot of it, right?
- Yeah, and if you look at the companies
that are doing microservices successfully at scale,
they will have a team of three to five people
working on one service.
So if you have a team of five people, 20 services,
you are doing like 100 times more services per developer
than the big companies.
- Yeah.
- And that's a lot of complexity
you've just added to your life.
And it is often unnecessary.
- Here, let's, I'll pull up the survey.
So Python developer survey 2020 results.
If you search in that for team, not team city,
employment work, working in a team
versus working independently.
About half the people work on a team.
But if you look at the team size, 75% are two to seven.
- Yeah, that should be one microservice.
- Yeah, exactly. - And that's really
microservices.
And there are applications are actually
are distributed systems where you actually,
it makes sense to do more,
but like any time you make something more distributed,
you are adding a vast amount of complexity.
So if you can avoid it, avoid it.
Yeah.
Well, here's the way that I think about it.
I think about microservices.
They have a tons of value and they move where the complexity of your application
lives.
So what you end up with is very simple, relatively simple, small, easy bits of
code.
But what you also end up with is a much more complex deployment, DevOps
coordination story. So when I think about
microservices, the farther you go
towards microservices, the more you're
taking the code complexity of a large
app and
architectural patterns and separation,
and you're saying, "Well, we don't need any
of that. Let's make it real simple." And
we move that complexity to
coordinating a bunch of services that
are always up, that are debuggable across
services,
and versioned, and all those things.
And when I think about that for me, I'm
way better at software complexity than
and I am at deployment complexity.
So I'm more successful not putting it
where I don't have my experience or skill set.
- It's actually software complexity too,
because if you call a function,
you're gonna call a function.
If you send a message to another service,
it may never arrive and may be delayed arbitrarily.
- Yeah.
- And so like the communication becomes
and the reliability of the thing you're calling,
the switch from a function within the same process
to remote service is a sort of huge increase
in unpredictability and sources of error.
- Yeah, that's a good point because as for many things
that could go wrong with say calling some function
or a sort of class level method,
not having it get called is not one of the things
you'd have to worry about, right?
It might crash 'cause the file system isn't there,
it isn't accessible, the database isn't there,
but it's not that you couldn't even call it, right?
That's gonna happen.
- Yeah.
- Before we move on, Kim says,
"Filebeat, Logstash, Prometheus, and Protainer,"
oh, Protainer, I've never heard of that one,
"can all help with logs from Docker in various ways."
Awesome, good resources to check out.
Okay, last one on your quick hit list
before we dive into some of the details
is faster builds and smaller images.
- Reproducible builds?
I guess we did.
Who needs reproducibility?
Yeah, let's go with reproducibility.
- Yeah, and so this is the static versus dynamic change
of dependencies that you talked about,
where on the one hand,
you really don't want every time
you reinstall your application
to get the latest dependencies,
because a new version of Django comes out,
you don't want your code to suddenly start running on it
because just because it came out.
On the other hand--
- Right, and maybe you're not aware, right?
because you have the older version of Django,
as you suggest, and you're working on it,
you get push, it goes to CI,
and then that ideally is going to like
some sort of continuous delivery,
and it's grabbed just the latest,
which is not what you had, and then it runs with it.
Like, that could be bad news.
- Yeah, and this happens a lot with DevTools,
and then like, oh, I'm gonna go check
if there's been a new release today,
and it matters less.
But when it's your actual production software,
That's not, oh, I wasted 20 minutes
figuring out a failed build.
It's my code is acting weird in production.
- Yeah.
- On the other hand, if you just freeze
all your dependencies and never change them,
then at some point you're gonna be running
on a version of software from two or three
or five years ago.
The extreme case is like there are organizations
still running on Python 2.
And this becomes very problematic
because upgrades become more and more terrifying
the more you put them off.
Because it's not just like Django,
it's like you have to upgrade Python and Django
and three other major libraries you depend on.
And it's like this project,
and it's a project that's not features
or bug fixers or anything, it's just risk.
But if you put it off more, then it's more risk.
And so you need a process that's ongoing.
So you need both in the short term
to make sure your builds are identical, reproducible,
and long, or mostly identical.
And then in the long term, you need the process
to continuously update so that upgrades are not
this terrifying thing.
They're just a standard part of your development process.
Yeah.
I had Carlton and Will on from Django Chat a while ago
talking about deployment.
And we came up with the idea that there are basically
two types of applications.
There's ones that you're going to continue
to add features to and you're going to care about.
And you have maybe a team dedicated to it.
And for those, you never want to be that far
from the latest thing.
Just like you described, the farther you get,
the more frightening, the more potential problems you have
if we take on the latest, right?
'Cause if you're on Django 2 and it's Django 4.5
is out in some future world,
you're like, well, we finally need to move to get that
'cause the other one's gone fully unsupported.
well, that's like you said, as a project.
But if you're always kind of just in dev,
sort of rolling into later one
and then deciding to roll that out,
like that's a much smaller challenge.
So those should absolutely stay there.
Also, we talked about a set of apps,
a type of app that falls into the, please don't touch it.
And if you do touch it and break it, it is now your baby.
It's some horrible legacy code.
The person who created it
probably doesn't work at the company anymore.
Nobody really likes it.
It's not important, but it needs to be there.
Like it's some internal app or something, right?
Like maybe those, you just freeze those in time.
They're very likely not public facing or something.
But certainly if you care about continuing to work
on this thing and adding features to it,
and it matters, then keep it not too far.
All right, so that's the tension.
You don't want to just constantly ship the latest thing
'cause maybe that's a major release of some library,
but at the same time, you don't want to freeze it.
- Yeah.
- Quick comment back to the monolith.
Tolin says, "Can you speak to microservices
"versus monolith, in particular for ML applications?"
I think that's a little bit different.
I hadn't really thought of it from an ML perspective.
You got thoughts?
- My decent rule of thumb is,
are you working on a web application
where there's hundreds of developers
working on that application?
And if the answer is yes, then someone in the organization
is going to bring up microservices.
Anything smaller than that, just don't think about it.
It's like-- there's-- and I tend to feel--
once you're small enough, I tend to feel the same way
about Kubernetes.
There is a lot of--
technologies for a company with 5,000 people or 500 people
or 50 people or five people or one person,
each organizational size,
you're gonna want different technologies
because different architectures,
because,
or I say applications would have 500 developers
or five developers,
because your ability to specialize,
your ability to build infrastructure are different.
And so,
if it's a thing that an organization
that has thousands of developers working,
like, are you building Pinterest?
Probably not.
then the technology choices Pinterest makes
may not be relevant to you.
- Yeah, I think it may be another consideration
is how much is part of that functionality shared, right?
Are you building an API that has some models
that make some prediction that a whole bunch
of your company and different apps and websites
and such might need?
Then, you know, maybe that's its own thing.
But if it's only being shared in one place, maybe not.
There's an interesting article that was from 2019.
It might be worth people checking out.
Called "Give Me Back My Monolith" from Craig Kirsten.
Anyway, I'm not going to go into it here,
but it's kind of an interesting read.
People can check that out if they want.
All right.
Can we talk about faster builds and small images now?
We're there?
I think we are.
Cool.
Yeah, tell us about that.
people who are new to Docker haven't done a lot with Docker.
There's a lot of things you can do to result
in a smaller, physically a smaller image size, right?
A smaller file on disk.
- Yeah, it's very easy to get a giant image in Docker
because the Docker image format is basically
in many ways like a git history.
So every time you make a change, it's not overriding,
it's adding, so there's a history there.
The history is always there.
So if you delete a file, it doesn't
make the Docker image any smaller
if it was added in a previous layer.
If it was added in a different layer, that's right.
Yeah.
And so if you structure things right,
there's a bunch you can do to make your images smaller.
And similarly, Docker has a bunch
of features to allow you to not have
to run pip install every single time you rebuild your image
because the dependencies haven't changed.
So it can just cache those files for you,
but you have to set it up right.
And you can go from a half an hour build
to a one minute build, depending on how you build your Docker
image.
So Elipy Linux being my current favorite example,
although maybe that's going to get fixed over the next year.
One of the things that's super interesting about that as well
the ordering as well as the grouping of those commands
can really matter.
So for example, if the first thing that you do
in your Docker file is to copy over your source code,
then the next thing to do is to do an apps update,
apt upgrade, then the next thing to do
is to install the dependencies and so on and so on, right?
Every time any file that you're working on,
even like an unrelated CSS file changes,
everything below that has to be rebuilt, right?
- Yeah.
- And if you make a point to say,
"Well, let's reorder that."
So the very last thing we do is copy our files over.
Then as you make changes,
those other layers will just be up to date.
And one cool trick that I've seen
that you can make that even better is
somewhere in that intermediate bit,
you could even copy your requirements
or pyproject.toml file over and then install those
and then copy the rest of your code over,
which looks like a stupid duplication.
Like, why are you just copy this one file?
You already copied it in the next one,
but you can cache that pip install,
pip compile step, make it faster.
- Yeah, yeah, but basically if you understand
how Docker caching works,
then you can sort of structure a Docker file
in the right way, and then you get caching.
And then you need extra steps to get it working in CI,
but you can get much faster builds.
- So the fast scene is super clear.
Tell us about smaller though.
What are you really focused on for smaller?
- So a lot of it,
so some of it is just things where various packaging tools
are optimized for development by default.
So if you do pip install and you do something like numpy,
this can be, or if you did say,
let's go the big packages, like things like TensorFlow,
like some of these packages are hundreds of megabytes,
like they're just huge.
So you download the package,
and then it unpacks it and installs all the files.
And then by default,
Pip will keep a copy of that downloaded file.
- Probably the intermediate build output.
- The wheel file you download.
- Potentially all that stuff, yeah.
- It'll just keep a copy of the wheel file.
The idea is, like you might be doing another virtual end
in another two hours,
and so when you do pip install this time,
It doesn't have to download it.
It can just use the cache version.
And for development, that's great.
But for a Docker image, you are never
going to call a pip install again.
So keeping this file is just like an extra 400 megabytes
of disk space.
And so there's a command line option for a pip install.
It says --new cached here.
And then it doesn't keep a copy.
And now you're free to put a bunch of space
adding, which can be fairly considerable if you're
doing certain, especially for data science tools.
>> You added up across all the dependencies
and their expansive dependencies and so on.
>> Yeah. That's just not storing files you don't need.
>> Yeah. One of the mind shifts you got to get
into to work with this stuff is,
you will never ever change the Docker configuration.
It's not like, "Oh, there's updates to Linux.
So I'm going to go in and like apt update it,
or there's an update to my requirements.
So I'm going to reinstall the requirements.
You recreate a new Docker image
and you throw away the old Docker image, right?
So there's a lot of the things that are there
to make that next step, right?
Pip installing again, work well,
are just liabilities and negative effects
on your Docker image, right?
- Yeah, because Docker images are sort of designed
to be treated as immutable artifacts.
is sort of great, but also like you're dealing with a whole bunch of tools that don't really
have that assumption. And so you have to figure out ways to make those two conflicting goals
work together.
Yeah. Another interesting thing that Peter brought up, Peter McKee, in the other episode
we did not too long ago, was intermediate frameworks and all sorts of stuff. It doesn't
apply super well to the Python space, but maybe there's certain aspects, especially in the data
science side, that might. So for example, if you're going to install like the development setup for
Python, not just the ability to run, but to do pip installs and do all sorts of things.
The example he gave was if you're going to have something that runs in Go,
well, what are the steps you might install, might do is like, well, we're going to install the Go
compiler and all that business, and we're going to compile the artifact and you would try to run it.
It's like we could create a separate container that will take the code and compile it and give
you the binary, just copy the binary without the compiler back in there. So maybe there's some
techniques like that. I don't know. I mean, I don't see it quite as well in Python because we
can't fully package it up as reliably. But yeah, so a common, so this happens a bunch if you're
like compiling your own custom C extensions.
Yeah.
So one way you can deal with that is like you can have a thing that generates wheels
and then like you build your Docker images, download the compiled wheel.
But if you want to do it in your Docker image, you're going to have to install a compiler,
but then you know, that compiler package is going to be in your final image.
So it just makes your image bigger, you don't need GCC.
And so you can use a multi stage build, which is probably what he was describing.
- Yeah, and so the one easy way to do that
is you create a virtualenv, install all your code,
and then you copy just the virtualenv
into a new Docker image.
And then the new Docker image just has the resulting
self-contained virtualenv.
It doesn't have any of the compilers
that you needed to build it.
- Right, no matter what else might have been over there.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, maybe you could even use something like pex
if you really care to compile that
or to bundle that into a zip and then run that directly.
I'm not sure, but possibly.
Kim out there in the live stream says,
"--no cache, Jir has made my evening, thanks.
I never thought about it,
the intermediate files from pip only from apt."
Yeah, then also Docker on build option
can help a bit with that scenario,
but not including the dev tools.
Okay, that's cool.
- We may have deprecated on builds.
I could be misremembering.
- That would be too bad, 'cause I just learned about it.
(laughs)
Okay, so those are the six things that you talk about
in this iterative process or this layered process.
Like step one, your first deliverable,
your first package of this as Docker sprint
would be get something working in either the single container
or the suite of containers from Docker Compose.
Step two is make sure they're secure.
Step three, getting them running in CI.
Step four, make sure that they're correct and debuggable.
Number five is reproducibility
with that balance of not exactly the latest,
but not super old and stale,
and then finally fast builds and small images.
- Yep.
And then along the way,
there's a whole bunch of different things you can do,
depending what tools you're using
and what your priorities are.
And maybe give some examples if we have time.
- Yeah, absolutely.
We got a little bit of time.
I thought that'd be fun.
So we could dive into just get something working,
which is like a couple of lines in Docker,
like see Docker symbol.
- Yeah, you choose a base image,
copy your code and run pip install
and say this is what I want you to run when you start up.
And for many applications, I'll do the trick.
- So I'm always wondering what is a good container base
to start from, right?
So you have this Python 3.9 Slim Buster version
as the base.
- Yeah, so.
- There's a bunch of different options, right?
What do you think?
- So the first thing is you want a,
these are all based on Linux distributions typically.
And so you want a Linux distribution
that's some sort of long-term support
where like they are both guaranteeing backwards compatibility
in terms of like binary ABIs,
but also in terms of features,
but they're also doing security backwards.
So like Debian stable, Ubuntu long-term support,
Red Hat Enterprise Linux, they all
are going to give you this stability guarantee.
They'll say, we'll give you a stable operating system
with security updates to it.
So you want something that's based on one of those probably.
And then you typically are going to want an up-to-date Python.
And these distributions will sometimes
like backport new versions of Python.
And so you can use that.
So you can say, I'm going to use Ubuntu long-term support
from 2020, and it has Python 3.8,
and maybe they just added 3.9.
I'm not sure.
I saw something to that effect.
And then you can go with that.
Or Docker maintains these things for the official, in quotes,
"Docker images" for Python.
Basically, what they do is they take a Debian stable,
And then they compile all the different versions
of Python for us.
You can get 3.7 or 3.8 or 3.9 and 3.10 when it comes out,
regardless of what's in Debian stable.
So it's Debian stable plus an extra Python.
So Python colon 3.9 is Debian stable plus 3.9.
Then they have two variants.
One has a bunch of extra packages and one has fewer.
The one with fewer packages is the dash slim.
And then the dash buster is which version
of Debian you're using.
And the reason you don't have to specify that,
but like maybe like at the end of the year,
maybe early next year,
there's gonna be a new version of Debian stable.
And so you don't want overnight to go from Debian 10
to Debian 11 as your base image, probably.
- You would probably want to just
at least do that consciously, right?
- And so putting the, yeah,
saying dash buster means I want to stick
to Debian 10 buster.
And for those who don't know,
Debian Linux releases are based on Toy Story characters.
- Nice, so yeah, Buster's one of them, right?
- Yeah, and I don't remember what the next one is.
There's Debian Unstable, which is named Sid.
It's always Debian Unstable, and it's always Sid.
They never release it.
- That's cool.
All right, so in this example, the Docker file says,
from Python colon 3.9 dash slim dash buster,
which means all the stuff that you described there.
And then you copy your files over,
you run pip install to run install the dependencies.
And then you just basically start your app
as the entry point.
And that is, hey, we got something working.
This is probably an oversimplification.
There might be a database thing
that also needs to start up and run its bits and so on.
But yeah, that's pretty much it, right?
It's pretty simple, typically pretty simple
to just get everything's working
because it's just install some packages
and then run this test to tell it to run the script
when you run a container.
- Yeah, it's pretty much whatever you need to do
to get a new machine set up to run this,
do that in this file and you're good to go.
- Yeah, and I guess I'm seeing a comment on the chat
and I should add that as far as I can tell,
Docker on build is not deprecated, but I'm not sure.
- All right, all right.
Sounds good.
So getting it working is super straightforward,
but getting something secure is interesting.
I think, let me go back.
I think we might be skipping around a bit,
but you're talking about having that version specified there
of Slim Buster.
I know how we'll get new dependencies
for the Python code up there.
And if there's some kind of security problem,
what will probably happen is Dependabot on GitHub
will send me a PR that says,
warning, warning, your version of web framework
has such and such CVE.
We've created a PR.
You accept it.
You push it back to the right branch.
That kicks off the whole process
and everything goes again, right?
So that keeps like the flow of the somewhat fresh code
and dependencies going through your system.
However, how do I keep that same thing happening for Linux?
Suppose Linux has some security vulnerability
in the version that I've got,
or I've got Nginx running and it has something like that
I need to update.
Like what is the trigger that helps me know?
Like what is the process that helps me know?
Oh, you need to, even if this is a somewhat stable,
stale project that we haven't touched for a month, you need to somehow go give it a
kick to like force it to get the latest and do that again. Because there's no auto app
update upgrade running there.
Yeah. So one, one thing to notice some people assume that the Debian, like the official
Python or even official Debian or whatever, the official base images from Docker get security
updates every time they come out, they don't. Some of them get updated fairly frequently.
Some of them, like the CentOS one, which I guess people are probably swishing away from,
but for a while, a lot of people were probably using it. The CentOS base image will not be
updated for months at a time. And so they are relying on, and the Debian ones, well,
I have seen them lag on security updates by two weeks. So Debian has released a new security
update but the Docker image hasn't been updated.
Which is not ideal because you're telling all the hackers, "Here's the problem that
you can just go look for in systems that lag on getting their patches."
Yeah, and so you as someone who is creating a Docker image cannot rely on the base images
to be up to date.
You need to install security updates when you build your Docker image.
What's that look like?
Step two is apt update, apt upgrade, dash Y, or something like that?
Yeah, apt get update, and then apt get minus Y upgrade.
You can add a few more command line options to make your image smaller, but yeah, it's
basically do an upgrade.
But there's a problem.
Docker has, as we talked about, has this caching thing where if you rebuild an image and nothing's
changed, it will just use a cache layer.
So when you rebuild your image, if you're using caching to speed up builds, it'll look
at Docker, look at the app get update, app get upgrade and say, "Well, this is unchanged,
same command."
And so it'll just use a cache.
- Yeah, and you absolutely will very likely be doing that because it's like five minutes
versus three seconds to restart and build and test your app.
So everyone is gonna be using the caching.
Maybe not in CI/CD, but everywhere else.
- I mean, you probably typically will want it in CI/CD too.
And so the result is that if you've set up caching to speed things up, that caching will
ensure you don't get security updates.
And so basically what you have to do is just have this process where once a day or once
a week or in response to CVs coming out, you rebuild your image from scratch without caching.
So you can just say every night at 3 a.m. when no one's working, we are going to rebuild
our image from scratch without caching.
And so our image will always have the latest security
updates.
And then if you're in a system that has continuous deployment,
you can then just automatically deploy that.
And then--
>>Victor: Wait, how do you make the little banner that
says you're going to be down Sunday from 3 to 5
when you do that part?
Just kidding.
>>Mark: Yeah, so this is easier if you
have a process that you trust enough
to do automatic deploys any time you want.
But you basically have to rebuild your image
from scratch without caching, either whenever a security
update comes out or just on a regular basis
and redeploy if it's a server.
Because you have these immutable artifacts that--
if you're running a VM, you can just
like a cron job that installs security updates nightly.
Like there's unattended upgrades package in Debian.
For Docker images, you can't do that.
And so you have to rebuild from scratch with security updates
and then redeploy.
Yeah, I'm glad you pointed out the caching,
because it's not enough to go out and say,
oh, every once a day or once a week,
we'll just do a Docker build.
Oh, it's up to date, actually.
We're good.
- Not so much.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, and that's why I brought this up
'cause I think it's tricky.
Like there's a natural flow that like kicks
that refresh cycle off for code,
but not for the infrastructure itself,
unless you think about it, so.
- Yeah, so you need to explicitly think about
and set up these processes,
either some way to get notified of CVs,
or you can probably, if you have a bunch of registries
have security scanners,
will scan your images for security problems.
And so you can run those in a schedule maybe.
- Honestly, the easiest though is probably just do
a forced rebuild 5 a.m. or something.
And that next time every developer that comes in
and runs the command Docker compose up,
it's gonna do a Docker build,
it's gonna see the things out of date
and it'll just trigger a let's get the fresh.
- Yeah.
And yeah, it turns out that security scanners also
have some bad defaults.
So you'll get-- there's a lot of security problems
that are not really problems, like the upstream maintainer
has closed it as won't fix, or it's not
going to get fixed in Debian stable until the next release
of Debian stable.
And so the Debian maintainers basically
have decided that it is not worth fixing.
And so there's nothing you can do.
Most security scanners will flag those.
So you run a scanner on an updated image,
and it'll say, you have 60 security vulnerabilities.
But if you turn on the flag that says,
only tell me about security vulnerabilities
that I can actually fix, that actually
have updates from Debian, and then you run that,
and it'll say you're fine.
And that is probably a much more realistic assessment
of your risk, because it's like, there
are bugs that are never going to be fixed,
because the glibc maintainers have said, no, won't fix.
This is not our problem.
It's like--
Yeah, I suspect you could also get notified about things
that are not observable, really.
So, oh, there's a problem in the system,
but we actually have a firewall blocking that port,
and we have no interaction with it, right?
It's like, how much do you worry about those kinds of things?
I mean, you may as well upgrade and redeploy,
because maybe one day your firewall will fail.
But there's a whole bunch of just utter noise
if you don't configure your security scanner correctly.
- Yeah.
All right, wrapping up this bit of the topic.
Kim says, "Forced rebuild is great for your own images
"based on Debian or other OS.
"You probably still need some kind of scanning."
Yeah, if you're not able to build it yourself.
Yeah, makes sense.
All right, we got a little bit of time
to touch on a couple of things.
One of the areas, stage two, was security.
You always want different layers. I talked about a firewall. We're talking about security updates and patches, but there's layers of security you want. And one of the very straightforward ones is you probably don't want to run this as root. And like certain systems will even warn you about this. So if I try to pseudo brew something on my Mac, it'll complain like you should never ever run brew as root. What are you doing? Are you crazy? Stop doing that.
I think micro whiskey might warn that you're running this route.
If you look at the logs when you started up, so when I run Docker,
and I just get that simple get started one, what does that run as?
Yes, so by default, Docker runs as root.
And that Oh, okay.
That kind of makes sense because all these system packages are designed to be installed as root.
And so if you're going to install system packages or install security updates, you have to be a root by default.
- Yeah.
- But as soon as you've switched
to like installing your Python code,
you should stop being root and create a new user
and switch to that user because otherwise
your application will be running as root
and root inside a container is more restricted,
but it's still not as restricted as a normal user.
And different runtime systems might take
more aggressive steps to restrict what you can do.
And so sometimes it might be okay,
but just a good best practice.
you don't know where your things are gonna run,
things might change around, just don't run as root.
- What you're saying is basically,
if you run as root in a Docker container,
and somebody takes over your container,
well, the worst thing they can do is like,
crash around inside of the container,
it's not like they now have full access to the machine.
But, maybe those writes are propagated onward,
like maybe they can do something else to,
I don't know, decrypt something
that then gets them further in the network.
Like there's challenges that can happen, right?
So it is much easier to escape a container
and onto the host if you're running as root.
Because like in Linux, security access is granted
by these things called capabilities.
And if you're root,
you have a little bit more capabilities.
It gives you a larger attack service on Linux kernel.
And so if there's a bug in the Linux kernel,
it's easier to take it over if you're root.
There are other things you can do to restrict all capabilities
to containers, even if you're running as a normal user.
So if you're running the ping utility, for example,
it gets a little bit of extra--
it gets an extra capability often so that it can do a ping.
And then if there's a bug in the ping command,
then you can insert code into it somehow.
Then it'll execute it with elevated privileges
and you can do more stuff.
And so--
Yeah.
You don't want that.
Yeah, and so he wants to run as a normal user that
will restrict the attack surface on the Linux kernel,
like removing all capabilities or restrict the attack surface
even more.
And you do these things.
And for many applications, it won't really matter too much.
But it's not a lot of work.
And it's a little bit more assurance
that if someone does somehow take over,
they'll limit the damage they can
because they're only restricted to this container.
Yeah. Okay, good advice.
And that uses the add user Docker command.
Very cool.
And then, let's see, what was the next one here?
We talked about the security updates.
That's a challenge.
So, what do I need to think about
for continuous integration and automated builds,
specifically with regard to Docker?
Is there anything special?
- So first it's just doing the actual work of automating it.
So like, it's really nice if every time you push
to your Git repository, every time you pull a request,
it builds a Docker image for you.
Because then like you can test it,
maybe you can write additional tests
to actually use a Docker image,
do integration tests, that sort of thing.
- Yeah, like for example,
there is a really cool framework or library,
I can't remember exactly what it is,
we talked about on Python Bytes,
that instead of trying to mock out, say, your database,
or it's mostly databases,
there's a Docker, there's like a testing library
you can use that will bring up a Docker container
running Mongo or Postgres or something,
and then fill it with test data,
and you just connect those things and say,
yeah, you can talk to the database, you don't care,
it's test data, you might as well.
- Yeah, testing with a real database
is so much easier these days,
data, it should just be the default.
If you're doing deploy with Postgres, you shouldn't test with SQLite because they're
different enough that there'll be bugs that you're going to miss.
And so once you have that automation of building for every pull request, you start having this
issue where you don't want the image you built for the feature 1, 2, 3 branch to overwrite
your production image.
That would be awkward.
- Yeah.
- And so...
- But you would still like continuous integration
to do its job and say, you checked in this thing,
it was okay or not okay.
Yeah?
- And it's useful to have like images uploaded
for every pull request that you can download
and maybe play around with it.
But you don't want feature branches images
to interfere with your production image.
And so one easy way to deal with that
is to name your Docker images based on the Git branch.
So you can just use the Git branch as the part after the colon, the tag.
So it can be like your image colon main if it's the main branch,
or your image colon feature one, two, three, it's the feature one, two, three branch.
>> Yeah, that works really well with GitFlow feature branch style of programming as well.
I create an issue,
then I create a branch named something along those lines,
and then I create a PR along those lines, and now guess what?
Here's the container that goes with that thing, right?
Yeah.
You can also do things like name your Docker image based on the git commit.
So you can sort of go from git commit to corresponding Docker image really easily.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a really cool idea.
I did find that package, by the way, in case people are interested.
It's called test containers dash Python.
Yeah.
Anyway, the idea is you just say like with my SQL container, do your tests.
that literally creates a Docker container
with your test data and all that stuff.
So people can check that out.
That's kind of cool.
All right, well, we're getting a little bit short on time here.
What else do you want to throw out for people
who are thinking about a lot of these best practices?
We touched on a lot of them,
but I know there's plenty more to go.
Like, for example, of faster builds,
you talk about, say, pre-compiling the PYC files.
- Oh yeah, that's more for, that actually do slower builds,
but it'll give you a faster startup.
- That's what I mean, yeah, sorry.
- So since this comes up a bunch,
Alpine Linux is not a thing you want,
is often not a thing you want to use
for your Docker-based image.
And the reason is, Alpine Linux is highly recommended
for if you want small images.
And it's kind of nice because you install,
like installing the Alpine packages somehow,
I don't know what they do,
It's vastly faster than installing Debian packages.
And you get small images, and it's kind of nice.
The problem is Alpine Linux uses a different standard C
library than most Linux distributions.
Most Linux distributions use glibc.
Alpine uses musl, or musl.
I don't know how to pronounce it.
And binary wheels are compiled by default
on Linux for glibc.
And so they are--
If you install Python packages on Alpine Linux,
you will not get binary wheels.
You're going to have to compile them from scratch.
And so what happens is people say,
oh, I'm going to use Alpine Linux.
It's going to make my images smaller.
And then they try to install like a Postgres package,
which is pre-compiled and doesn't work.
They're like, okay, so now I have to install a compiler
and I'll install the Postgres headers.
Now you have this image that has the compiler
and the Postgres headers in it,
and you have to compile stuff.
And when you get to data science or scientific computing,
you're compiling these massive packages.
It takes a really long time to compile.
Your builds are super slow.
And you can do a whole bunch of work
to then use a multi-stage build so your image is small.
And then you can use caching so the builds are fast.
Or you can just use a different Linux distribution
and use binary builds.
Yeah, don't cause yourself the challenge.
Just use something else.
But there is a PEP that I believe
was accepted to start the process of building wheels
for Alpine.
And I've started seeing some packaging tools
have started adding support.
And so it may be that in a year or two,
it'll be just like everyone builds binary wheels
for many Linux, just a glibc.
People might start building binary wheels for Alpine.
And when that happens, there'll be much less of an issue.
Until then, avoid using Alpine Linux as your base image.
Yeah.
You want to close it out with a PYC thing?
Sure.
So when you start up a Python program,
it loads in your Python source files and then compiles them.
And compilation here is not really
the same as compiling a C extension.
It's basically a one-to-one translation.
It compiles them to bytecode and writes them out as PYC files.
And then the next time you start,
it can just load the PYC file, and that
will make your application start up quickly.
And so if you're doing some sort of--
many applications, it doesn't matter.
If you're doing a serverless kind of thing,
where you want things to start up really quickly,
having to compile the PYC is--
it's going to add some startup time.
And so what you can do is--
- Any times where the container lifetime,
the life cycle is short, right?
Let's say with a web app, you would start it
and it would run for hours.
So it doesn't matter, right?
- Yeah, so it's like it took you another 20 milliseconds
to start, meh.
It's gonna be run for three days.
But if you're doing a serverless thing
where like 20 milliseconds might be a significant chunk
of the latency of your service.
So when you build your Docker image,
you can pre-compile all your PYC files
and then it'll be in the image and you won't have it,
and then your startup will be faster.
And the reason you have to actually think about this
is that Docker images are immutable.
So like your container starts up,
it compiles and writes the PYCs,
but those PYCs never make it to the original image.
Every time you start the image,
it starts with the same immutable artifact,
unlike your local home directory.
And so if you really want the fastest startup,
you can make your image a bit larger and compile the PYCs.
- Basically that becomes a step in your Docker build files
to compile the PYCs ahead of time.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Awesome, great advice, many, many tips.
I think we're gonna have to leave it there.
We're getting basically running out of time,
but yeah, really nice talk.
I'll link to your talk that you did at PyCon
and thanks for coming here
and sharing the audio version with us.
- No, thanks for inviting me.
- Of course.
Before you get out of here though,
there's the final two questions.
If you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor do you use?
I use SpaceMax, which is kind of like they took Emacs
and they configured it like 20 years.
That's like you're jumping 20 years into the future.
It's like it's Emacs, but with all the things
you need pre-configured to actually
have a nice development environment.
And it has VI bindings and Emacs bindings.
I use the Emacs bindings.
But if you like VM, you can use the VI bindings.
- Yeah, cool.
Their subtitle and sub-subtitles,
a community-driven Emacs distribution.
The best editor is neither Emacs nor Vim.
It's Emacs and Vim.
- I honestly don't use the Vim bindings at all.
I'm using it for like,
it does all the IDE stuff you want out of the box.
And so it's just, it's a much more modern experience.
- Okay, really cool.
And then notable PyPI package?
- Py03, which is a way to create Python extensions in Rust.
I've used it to create most of our fill, my memory profiler.
Also I wrapped some Rust library with it.
It's really, really nice way to create
fast, safe extensions for Python.
And it comes, there's a packaging tool called Maturin,
M-A-T-U-R-I-N, which was probably the nicest
Python packaging experience I've ever had.
Like you add like three lines,
like you had a PyProject line file,
which is like three lines, you add like a tiny bit
of metadata, and now you can build wheels
and you can pip install and it just works.
And it's just amazingly smooth development experience.
- Oh, that's fantastic.
- Yeah.
- So basically if you're gonna write C extensions,
maybe reconsider that and write them in Rust
and use this, possibly?
- Yeah, it's like Rust is,
like gives you the same performance
that you would get from C or C++, but it's much safer.
And it, as someone who used to write C++ long ago,
like I've learned it over the past couple of years
and it's like, it is the language
I always wanted C++ to be.
- Yeah, I hear you.
I did a lot of C++ as well.
It was always bringing in these things
like smart pointers and other stuff.
It's like, why does it have to be hard?
Can't we just like make this better?
- And it's not a simple language
because if you want performance, you need to do work.
And it has a very different paradigm,
but it's really lovely language.
You'll write much safer code.
And Py03 makes it really nice to write Python extensions.
- Yeah, cool, cool.
And then Taldin's out there has a interesting comment.
Is that like an isotope?
- I think it's a reference to like oxidization.
- Yeah, yeah, 'cause rust.
- Yeah, there's a lot of oxidizing happening around--
- There's also PyOxidizer.
- Yeah, there's PyOxidizer.
- Yeah.
- That's like a completely different project,
but yeah, it's another REST fun.
- Packaging, yeah, exactly.
Very, very cool.
All right, final call to action.
People are interested in this, they wanna go deeper.
You've got some various things
that you can find on your website,
pythonspeed.com/docker.
- Yeah. - Where do they go?
What do you tell them?
- Yeah, so if you go to pythonspeed.com/docker,
there's a whole bunch of free articles
about various best practices.
If you're specifically interested in the process
we covered today, there's a PyCon talk,
but also if you go to pythonspeed.com/dockerprocess,
it's also linked on that page.
It's like a introduction to Dockerizing for production.
It's basically like a little mini ebook I wrote
That's about 10 pages, but it goes over this process
that we talked about today and sort of prose
and talks about sort of the decisions you have to make
and how it integrates with your organizational processes.
- That's super cool.
Yeah, and on that site, the slash Docker part,
like it has a bunch of articles
and it has a very small scroll bar
and a lot of stuff below it.
So yeah, there's a lot of things going on.
People can go check out for more resources there, right?
- Yeah, and I have a bunch of paid products
If anyone's interested about Docker packaging
from the intro to much more detailed one,
and if you use the code, talkpython,
you can get a 15% discount.
- Oh, fantastic, awesome.
Yeah, so be sure to do that.
Thank you so much for being on the show
and sharing a lot of your hard-earned Docker experience.
- Yeah, thanks for inviting me.
- You bet.
Yeah, see ya.
Yeah, you too, bye.
Bye everyone out there in the live stream.
Thanks for being here.
[BLANK_AUDIO]